[DRAMATIC WHOOSHING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Bill McKenna is with us, the
founder of the Cognomovement
and the author of
"The Only Lesson,"
and he's going to teach
us a very simple method
to access our subconscious.
Bill, welcome back
to the program.
>>BILL MCKENNA: Oh, thank you.
>>NOORY: You know, the
last time you were on,
I got flooded with emails
at "Coast to Coast"
about your appearance.
They love you.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, god, George.
Thank you, thank you.
That makes me feel great.
>>NOORY: Now, what
is Cognomovement?
>>MCKENNA: Cognomovement
is a very simple method
of accessing the
subconscious mind
and reprogramming it
so that you can get rid
of all of the different
limitations of your life,
and even find yourself with
superhuman type of performance.
>>NOORY: Bill, what is
the subconscious mind?
>>MCKENNA: Well, the
subconscious mind
is actually something that is
not really well understood,
at least in the past.
And that is a system
that we have within us
that controls our lives.
It's everything that is
going on in our lives
actually is part of
the subconscious.
>>NOORY: And we all
have the subconscious?
>>MCKENNA: Everybody
has the subconscious.
>>NOORY: Who discovered it?
>>MCKENNA: So it's not actually
the discoverer but the person
who coined the term.
Sigmund Freud had coined
the term "the subconscious."
And the way he described it
is the impulses that we have,
the associations,
the reactions--
all of these things
that were not
accessible by the
conscious mind.
>>NOORY: Where does
it lie in the body?
Is it in our brain?
Where is it?
>>MCKENNA: Well that's a really
interesting question, right?
Ever since I've heard
about the subconscious--
where is it?
It seemed quite nebulous.
Did anybody ever tell
you where it was?
>>NOORY: Nope.
I don't think anybody knows.
>>MCKENNA: Nobody
knows, until today.
So what it is--
it's actually our
nervous system.
Our nervous system's our
brain and all our spine
and the periphery nerves
throughout our body
and all the way to our senses.
It is how we interpret
life, and it stores
information about every event.
It's electrical charges that run
all the way through our body.
>>NOORY: How do we
access it, Bill?
How easy is it?
Or how difficult is it?
>>MCKENNA: So accessing the
subconscious now, today--
I'm going to give you a
method, everybody out there--
a method of directly
accessing the subconscious.
Because we know that it's
actually the nervous system,
we can actually isolate
the subconscious,
the nervous system,
the particular circuit,
actually through the teeth.
>>NOORY: Through the teeth?
>>MCKENNA: Through the teeth.
And you'll be able to see
vivid memories, things
that you have forgot about.
>>NOORY: Why is it
so important, Bill,
to access the subconscious mind?
>>MCKENNA: It's really important
to access the subconscious
because it controls
all the things that
are going on in our lives.
When we access the
subconscious, we
see what has limited us in
some way, shape, or form.
And we can find a way to
have the life of our dreams
by understanding what
limited us in the past.
>>NOORY: Bill, your partner
at the Cognomovement
explains how our central nervous
system is essential to building
in this security system.
>>LIZ LARSON: What most
people don't realize
is that we are built with
our own security system.
Bill and I like to call it
a threat assessment system.
The nervous system, led
by the limbic system,
is constantly assessing threats,
whether we're safe or not safe.
This is happening
without our awareness
all the time, 24 hours a
day, even into our sleep.
The problem is that this
system isn't great at time.
It doesn't really know if
a threat is happening now,
from our dreams
and not even real,
from our past, our long distant
past, or even our future.
So the issue is that it will
be detecting a threat based
on sensation in our body.
Does the body sense something
that reminds it of a fear
from long ago, a threat?
And if so, it'll start a pattern
based on that sensation that
sends a signal directly to
the logical mind, the brain,
that assesses, what
do we do about this?
Do we raise our blood pressure?
Do we increase our cortisol
and adrenal levels?
Do we send a signal back to
the body to be prepared to run?
This causes a situation where
we have patterns and programs
and threats throughout
our whole life that
are running nonstop in the
body and consuming our energy.
>>NOORY: Bill,
that's Liz Larson,
your partner in Cognomovement,
and she seems to be spot on.
How does the
subconscious control
our destiny and our lives?
>>MCKENNA: You know,
this is so important.
And if you understand this, a
whole world will open up to it.
The way it works
is our subconscious
is our nervous system.
The subconscious exploits
this and creates a feeling.
So there's a doctor,
Antonio Damasio,
and he's originally from
Brazil, but he's a professor,
I believe, at USC.
And he's a neurologist
and a psychologist.
He was able to figure out that
we get a feeling in our body.
This is our nervous
system causing a feeling.
And then we will think a
thought equal to that feeling.
What happens for
all of us is we then
act according to the feeling.
So the thing that's kind of
great and disturbing about this
is that when we get
the feeling, it doesn't
matter what the truth is.
It doesn't matter what's
good for us or bad for us.
We will act according
to the feeling.
Now, people-- whether
they are heads of state,
heads of government,
right down to our family--
>>NOORY: Corporations--
>>MCKENNA: Corporations--
>>NOORY: --whatever.
>>MCKENNA: --whatever-- what
happens is they're just humans,
they get a feeling, and then
they will pretzel logic things
around.
>>NOORY: Is it our gut?
>>MCKENNA: Well a lot of
people experience that.
It's actually part of this
subconscious or nervous system.
They get a feeling.
They get, oh, I
got a gut feeling.
And now, whatever
that gut feeling is,
they will act according to it.
So this simple method that the
body has to direct our lives
is how the subconscious ends
up controlling everything,
whether we like it or not.
>>NOORY: How many
people, Bill, though,
don't act on their
subconscious mind?
They have this feeling,
this gut feeling
that you just mentioned,
but they don't act on it.
And then it's one of those,
should've, could've, would've
situations.
>>MCKENNA: Absolutely.
You know, lots of people
have that experience.
And there's a lot
of other people
that have the
opposite experience.
But ultimately, all of us are at
the behest of the subconscious.
We have all of these
feelings that, in our body,
end up forcing us to, let's
say, eat the french fries,
drink the Coca-Cola, or
become enormously successful,
a tremendous athlete--
all of it is, I got a feeling.
>>NOORY: The hunch.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, well,
it's actually every feeling
is all the subconscious.
>>NOORY: Why are some people
better at it than others?
>>MCKENNA: Some people
are simply more in tune
than others.
They're aware of their
feelings in their body.
Because this is so
subtle, most of us
don't even realize that
we have the feeling
and that it came first.
For most of us, we
wake up in the morning,
and we may have a feeling.
And what ends up
happening is we will
try to hook it into
something, some other thing.
I don't feel good
today, and why?
Why don't I feel good?
Ah, it's because of them.
>>NOORY: Blame it
on something else.
>>MCKENNA: Blame it
But it's really just
the subconscious
creating a sensation
in the body.
>>NOORY: How do
we know that we've
tapped into our subconscious?
How do we get that feeling?
>>MCKENNA: There's numerous
ways to know how you've
tapped into your subconscious.
If you really pay
close attention,
there is a feeling
in the body where,
let's say, when we have a
really great experience,
where we got exactly
what we wanted--
>>NOORY: Like interviewing
you on this program,
something like that.
>>MCKENNA: (LAUGHING) Yeah.
>>NOORY: Right?
>>MCKENNA: Right?
It's a great feeling, right?
And this is like a core
attracting feeling.
Our subconscious is
creating that feeling.
But it also creates
these opposite feelings,
like fear, doubt,
worry, anxiety.
>>NOORY: Are they
negative feelings?
>>MCKENNA: So these
feelings, right--
we interpret as
negative or positive.
But it's really just our
nervous system sending a signal.
Some of them are what
we would call corrupt.
They are a fearful
feeling, but it's not
based in actual reality.
>>NOORY: Are there certain--
you mentioned the teeth,
and you mentioned other areas.
Certain areas of the
body do certain things
with the subconscious mind?
>>MCKENNA: So everywhere in
your body, right, there is--
the subconscious is running.
>>NOORY: Constantly.
>>MCKENNA: Constantly.
And what we've
been able to do is
to isolate an individual
circuit of the subconscious
because it is the neurology--
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>MCKENNA: --and we can
take and look at-- let's say
I've got a real feeling
in my solar plexus.
>>NOORY: Right here.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, and it's a
nervous feeling or whatever.
We can isolate the
individual circuit that's--
with the tooth, and we can take
a look and see what's there,
the vivid memory or event
that ends up causing this.
>>NOORY: Is the subconscious
mind good or bad for us?
>>MCKENNA: It's neither
really good or bad.
It's really trying to
constantly protect us.
It's constantly trying
to help us to survive.
>>NOORY: It's a fight-or-flight
mechanism within our system?
>>MCKENNA: Exactly,
it's a fight-or-flight,
but it also can be the driver
to become a billionaire.
It could be the driver to
be a tremendous athlete.
It doesn't matter what it is.
It's all controlled.
A lot of people think that the
subconscious-- oh, yeah, it's
keeping me suppressed
or whatever.
But it's not really true.
It is trying to keep
you alive and well,
and it's doing its
best job at that.
But sometimes, those
signals are what
we would call nonresourceful.
There's other times that
they are resourceful.
>>NOORY: Bill, let's
go back to Liz Larson
again as she relates
memories in our body
to corrupt files in a
computer-type system.
>>LARSON: What most
of us are not aware
of is that our
memories are actually
like corrupt files in
a computer program.
You see, memories are
inaccurate from the moment
they're recorded in the body.
Why?
Because they're recorded
from one perspective, yours.
And that perspective
is influenced
by everything going on around
a body that the body can sense.
For example, the weather outside
could affect your memory.
If it was raining and cold, the
body perceives raining and cold
and mixes it with whatever the
situation is that happened.
So now that memory is
infiltrated by rainy and cold.
The next time you run
that memory from the brain
to the body and the
body to the brain
through sensation along
the nervous system,
that memory will also
take into account whatever
else is going on that day.
If maybe your blood sugar
is low or your clothes
are uncomfortable, it'll get
recorded in that memory again.
So if a memory happened
when you were a small child,
by the time you're an
adult, maybe 40s or 50s,
that memory has been
played thousands of times
and incorporates many
things that don't actually
pertain to that memory.
So when we do a
Cognomovement session--
we actually access the part of
the brain that knows precisely
what happened in that moment--
many people are
shocked to find out
that the thing they
remember didn't
happen the way they
remember it, or maybe it
didn't happen at all.
It's a fascinating
thing, and it's so useful
when we realize this,
that memories are simply
a marker in time but not
necessarily accurate.
There's a lot to be
discovered in what really
did happen in that moment.
And for many people, that
alone can clear things
like trauma, pain,
fear, and also can
be released in order to return
that energy that the body is
utilizing to record that
and count it as a threat.
It can be moved
back into the body
to create super
energy for things
like healing and learning
and laughing and loving.
>>NOORY: She knows what
she's talking about, Bill.
>>MCKENNA: She sure does.
>>NOORY: How important is
the brain to all of this?
>>MCKENNA: Ah, it's
tremendously important.
It is all a part of
this nervous system.
>>NOORY: Is it the
central part of it?
>>MCKENNA: It is equally
as important as the body.
It's all one system.
>>NOORY: How do you access
certain parts of the brain
to do certain things?
>>MCKENNA: So it's
super interesting.
>>NOORY: Which you'll teach us?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, yeah.
This is a real basic
piece of understanding,
and that is that every single
eye position, actually,
as you rotate your
eyes around, is
a different part of the brain.
When I'm looking
over here, there's
a different part of
the brain stimulated.
Looking over here,
it's a different part
of the brain stimulated.
So the combination
of an eye position
and isolating a
circuit with the teeth,
you'll end up having a very
clear picture of information
that was hidden from you.
>>NOORY: In Los Angeles, I
was in the middle of a DUI
checkpoint, and they
were pulling people
over, testing them and stuff.
And they got to
me, and they said,
have you been drinking tonight?
And I said, no, sir, I haven't.
And he said, well, I need
to do an eye test on you.
And I said, OK.
And he made me
look at his finger
as he moved it back and forth
without moving my head, merely
my eyes.
What was he doing?
>>MCKENNA: He's testing to
see what kind of eye movements
that you can do.
And there are
certain indications
in your eye and the
way it behaves--
you can tell if you've
been drinking or not.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MCKENNA: Can you track?
Yeah, it's--
>>NOORY: Well, I
passed, and off I went,
but he did not want me
moving my head like that.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Just my eyes.
>>NOORY: Is that a
little bit of how
you can tap into your
subconscious mind,
almost the same way?
>>MCKENNA: Yes, it is.
Your eyes will indicate
to you where, let's say,
for example, an issue is.
There's a method to it.
You can actually see
the part of the brain--
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>MCKENNA: --through the
eyes, because the eyes
and the brain and
the spinal cord
are one neurological system.
>>NOORY: What kicks up
the subconscious mind?
Is it automatic, or do we do it?
>>MCKENNA: It is,
in fact, automatic.
>>NOORY: I knew it.
>>MCKENNA: (LAUGHING)
Yeah, yeah.
And that's the wonderful
thing about it,
and that's the insidious
thing about it, right?
The wonderful thing about
it is it's automatic.
I don't have to think
about turning the steering
wheel in my car or--
>>NOORY: You just do it.
>>MCKENNA: --avoiding something.
You simply just do it.
>>NOORY: It's your reaction.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
you're reacting.
But it's also, on
the other side,
there are certain things
that are nonresourceful.
I had a woman that she was
living in on the Baltic Sea.
I think it was in Germany.
And she could not help it but
wolfed down french fries, so
many french fries.
>>NOORY: Like she was starving?
>>MCKENNA: Like starving,
like, all the time,
couldn't get enough
french fries in her diet,
and the weight, and
then the cholesterol,
all the things that
ensue from that.
It ended up with me, and we
ended up doing the process,
and we ended up
seeing what caused it.
And it was so amazing.
>>NOORY: And you found that?
>>MCKENNA: We found it.
It turns out, when
she was just a child,
her and her father would go down
to a pier on the Baltic Sea.
There was a stand there
that sold french fries.
And he-- father would
get her french fries.
It was just the father
and the daughter.
>>NOORY: It made her feel good.
>>MCKENNA: And she felt so good.
And now, in her adult life,
when she wants to feel good,
she didn't realize,
I don't feel good.
I'm in a job I hate.
I got problems.
You know what?
French fries.
That's going to
make me feel good.
>>NOORY: One of my
daughters brings up
the same kind of thing
you just mentioned,
Bill, where we did
kid things as a kid
when she was a little baby.
She remembers these
things, and she likes
to recreate it as an adult--
in an adult way, of course,
but it probably brings back
great, little memories for her.
>>MCKENNA: Well, what it does
is, if you notice, right--
let's say for all of
us that are watching,
there is a place in
your body that maybe you
don't feel so good today.
You know, there's a--
wherever in your body, you
have a little sensation.
But there's a completely
different place in her body
that she feels this wonderful--
>>NOORY: That you feel good.
>>MCKENNA: --feeling of
feeling good with you.
And if she does the
action, it brings her
into this place
of feeling great.
>>NOORY: What are some of
the most remarkable things
the subconscious mind
can do, in your opinion?
>>MCKENNA: In my opinion,
it is absolutely-- well,
it is that it controls
95% of whatever
is going on in our life, and
only 5% of it's conscious.
So the amazing thing, the
most amazing thing about it,
is it's handling every process.
Every detail of our life is
handled by the subconscious.
Only a small portion is
what we're conscious of.
So when we program
it appropriately
and take control of it,
people can run ultramarathons.
They can become billionaires.
They can become not
only highly educated,
but they can have
great relationships.
>>NOORY: It can make someone
financially successful?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
Well, it's kind of crazy that
it can do that, but it's true.
It reminds me of
Sir Richard Branson.
You know, Sir Richard Branson
started 400 companies.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MCKENNA: 400.
>>NOORY: He's known for his
airline, Virgin Galactic,
and a few other things.
>>MCKENNA: Many,
many other things.
There's Virgin everything.
But he has naturally figured
out how to use his subconscious.
And the way he does
it is so simple.
What he does is he gets a
proposal for a business,
or he's thinking about
starting a business.
And he said what he does
is he reads the proposal
or thinks about, OK,
should I do this?
And then he stops, and he waits.
And he waits for
a specific feeling
in a specific part of his body.
And if the feeling
comes, he moves forward.
So he knows, inherently, knew
how to use his subconscious.
>>NOORY: We started a business
several years ago called
ParanormalDate.com,
and it started
when a lady came up to me at
an event I was speaking at
and said, you have to help me.
And I went, excuse me?
She said, you need to help me.
And I said, what's wrong?
She said, I went on
a date with a guy
and started talking about the
paranormal and UFOs and Bigfoot
and ghosts, things I
really love to talk about.
He got up and left.
You need to set up some way
that we can meet people who
understand what we're doing.
And I went-- this light
hit my subconscious mind.
And I said, I'm going to create
a dating service for people
like her, and it's
been very successful.
>>MCKENNA: Wow.
So what did that feel
like to you, George,
when you got that information--
>>NOORY: It still feels great.
Every time I see those numbers
grow with the membership--
we're up to 159,000 people--
>>MCKENNA: Wow.
>>NOORY: --who have
signed up for this.
Some have gotten married.
Some have met.
It's fantastic.
>>MCKENNA: That is really great.
So where is that sensation?
If you were to say, I see
those numbers going up,
and when you got the
proposal to do this,
where did you feel something?
>>NOORY: Here, in the heart.
>>MCKENNA: Perfect.
So, just like Sir
Richard Branson,
now you know, next time
you get that exact feeling
in that exact place,
you know to go for it.
>>NOORY: Now it would
not have happened to
me had she not come up to me.
I don't think it would
have dawned on me.
But something clicked,
and I grabbed it.
>>MCKENNA: That is awesome.
>>NOORY: That's the thing.
The subconscious
mind-- how do you
improve things with
the subconscious mind,
like a relationship or
something like that?
>>MCKENNA: This is a
really interesting thing
is that all of us have our
subconscious programmed.
And the subconscious programming
takes place very early in life.
The Jesuits said,
give me a child
between the ages
of zero and seven,
and I will show you the man.
What they knew is they were
programming the subconscious.
So whatever that they programmed
in will repeat forever.
Now, the people that are in our
lives between zero and seven
are our parents.
So oftentimes, those
cycles of whatever
we heard and saw during
that early part of life
will continue.
There is a simple method
where you allow yourself
to feel however you feel--
let's say I've got a
hard relationship--
and then you do this
process of reprogramming
your subconscious.
And there's an
effect, like what we
call spooky action at a
distance, like Einstein said.
When I change, they change.
So as this feeling goes away in
me, that relationship changes.
>>NOORY: How far
does the subconscious
work from the body?
Does it have to be
attached to the body,
or can it just be out
there, floating around,
doing what it does?
>>MCKENNA: It's really neat.
So, George, have you ever had
somebody creep up behind you,
and you felt them,
and you turned around?
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah, all the time.
>>MCKENNA: Right.
So this is your
electromagnetic system, right?
Our actual nervous system
extends beyond the body.
Now, as it extends
beyond the body--
this extension is
super interesting.
It helps to keep us safe.
If we didn't have it, the
person would touch you,
and you didn't even know
it was happening before.
Having said that,
there's a astronaut who
passed away, Edgar Mitchell.
Do you remember him?
>>NOORY: I remember
Edgar quite well.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, he was--
>>NOORY: Apollo 14,
walked on the moon,
set up Noetic Institute, and
loved parapsychology, loved it.
>>MCKENNA: He was
an amazing man.
Back in the 2000s, he
worked with a bunch
of doctors that were doing
MRI research in Germany.
And as they were
taking these MRI scans,
they saw a actual expulsion
of energy out of the person
when they were in
emotional state.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MCKENNA: And they could--
literally caught it on the MRI.
So the field around you is that.
But it gets more beyond belief.
So back right before
Edgar died, he
had done his very
last interview.
And in his very last
interview-- and you
know how Edgar was
so matter-of-fact.
>>NOORY: Yes, he
was, and direct.
>>MCKENNA: Direct matter--
>>NOORY: Lived in Florida.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
just matter-of-fact.
He said, you know, we
now have technology
to actually read your field.
Everything that's
gone on in your life--
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>MCKENNA: --we can read it
now with this technology.
We can tell, oh, you
were 14 years old.
You fell off your bike.
You broke your arm, and
you skinned your knee.
And this was amazing.
I mean, I had to rewatch
this several times because I
was like, oh my god, I
can't believe he's actually
telling us about this.
Anyway, interview
was taken down,
but that was a gift
that he gave us.
>>NOORY: He was one of a kind.
>>MCKENNA: Sure was.
>>NOORY: Liz Larson
details the success
of a client undergoing
cognotherapy.
>>LARSON: A body
under stress consumes
large amounts of energy.
It reroutes that energy to
the muscles to prepare to run,
to the adrenal
glands to increase
adrenaline and
cortisol, to the heart
to create a raise
in blood pressure,
so there's more blood
moving to muscles
that are preparing to run.
It reroutes energy
away from the parts
of the brain that
are responsible
for critical thinking, logic.
It reroutes energy away
from the body for healing.
It is not involved in having
us actively be in love.
It doesn't have energy for that.
We're certainly not learning
when a body is under stress.
So we wanted to see
what did it look
like inside the brain with
a body that's actively
under stress.
The images of the brain
scan that you see here
are exactly that.
It's a brain under stress.
What we knew about
the subject is
that she had an ongoing
family issue from her past.
It wasn't even something
that was active now.
It was creating a tremor in
her physical body as well.
The symptoms were outwardly
present in her body.
During this test,
this brain scan,
there were auditory stimulus
and visual stimulus.
And she was asked to
do cognitive tests.
They were testing for time
and accuracy and efficiency.
And in the first image,
you can see that brain
trying to make
critical decisions
but using a massive
amount of energy to do it.
The signals were
scrambled and complicated.
After a Cognomovement
session of just 45 minutes,
you see in the second
image that the brain
is making much more
efficient decisions
and utilizing a tremendous
amount less of energy.
What the test shows-- that
this person was 30% faster,
their cognition was
also 30% better,
and they were far,
far more efficient.
What's important to
us about these brain
scan results is that we could
see that the body was using
energy far more efficiently.
Now this body could
be doing these tests
and also sending energy to the
brain for critical thinking.
It could also send energy
to the body for healing.
It could also have enough
energy for the body
to feel love or
happiness or joy.
Overall, what we know is that
the system is far, far more
efficient all the way around
and that it got its energy back
for use on things that were
far more important than stress
in that moment.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
How can we utilize the
subconscious mind, Bill,
to do positive things
like she's mentioned?
>>MCKENNA: Well, the
way we can utilize
it to do the most positive
things that you mention
is to find the issue
and then to actually
go through physical movements
and process the issues.
You know, I love the
statement from Rumi.
He said, seek not to love but
to remove the blocks to it.
And all of the fears and doubts
and worries and concerns,
you can actually process so
you don't feel them anymore.
Reprogram the
subconscious to do that,
and also to program it
in whatever you want.
Now, this could be
like Sir Richard
Branson knowing that feeling.
It could be people like
Formula One drivers
having super performance
as far as response time
and making correct decisions.
>>NOORY: When Steve Jobs
came up with Apple Computer
with Steve Wozniak,
I'm sure they
tapped into something in
their subconscious mind
to develop that.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, you bet.
You bet.
You know that there was
a particular ashram.
He ended up in India that
was before it happened.
And it just so happens that
all the other major tech
heads went to that
same ashram as well.
>>NOORY: Maybe it
tuned him up, huh?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: The practical ways to
access your subconscious-- what
are some of the easier ways?
Or does it just kick
in automatically?
>>MCKENNA: Well,
it is automatic.
So one of the really
easy, practical ways
to access your subconscious is
to understand the actual body's
sensations, wherever they are.
Like, for example,
you and having
that feeling in your heart about
the dating app for people--
now, that is a very clear way
that you can now understand,
it's going to go well
if I get this feeling.
Now, the other side of things
is to do the same measurement
with these other
sensations in the body.
So this is a natural way that
somebody can start right today,
utilizing it.
>>NOORY: And it works.
>>MCKENNA: Absolutely, it works.
The only problem is, is
that some of these things
are absolutely corrupt
and not in our best
and highest interest.
And we will pretzel
logic it around
and say, oh, it
is in my interest.
I should not go
meet that person.
Maybe it's the most
beautiful woman or man
that you've ever seen.
You're like, no, no, no, no.
I can't go up to them.
They're too good-looking
or whatever it might be.
That might not be
in your interest,
or maybe it's a
business opportunity.
So when you can actually
be neutral of those anxiety
feelings, you can make decisions
that are more whole brain,
because as we're in
fear, it literally
shuts down the brain
and the parts of it
that we have access to.
>>NOORY: Past lives-- do we tap
into them with our subconscious
mind?
>>MCKENNA: So with
past lives, that
can happen of you having
those experiences.
Most people don't tap in and
don't have that experience,
but you certainly can.
And when you do, it can
be extremely profitable.
>>NOORY: For?
>>MCKENNA: Well, for example,
you might have, let's say,
a lot of resentment
towards someone,
or you might be incredibly
afraid of water,
let's say, for
example, and swimming.
And then you tap into a previous
lifetime where you drowned.
And once you become free
of all of that worry,
now you can go swimming and
enjoy that aspect of life.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
What other practical
ways do people then
tap into their subconscious?
And you're going to do
a little exercise for us
to teach us that.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
So I am going to--
yeah, I'm going
to actually teach you this.
There are other ways to
access the subconscious,
but this method is
through the body.
It's super fast,
and it's super easy.
>>NOORY: Try it out.
>>MCKENNA: So what
we do here is we're
going to isolate a circuit.
So you take the
tip of your tongue,
and you put it onto
one of your back teeth.
>>NOORY: (MUFFLED) Yeah?
>>MCKENNA: And then
you very, very slowly--
and when I mean slowly
is there's three pieces,
components to this process.
Number one is, what are
we going to focus on?
In today's example,
we're going to focus
on the great times of my life,
the great aspects of my life.
>>NOORY: (MUFFLED) I still
have my tongue on my teeth.
>>MCKENNA: (LAUGHING) Yeah.
And now you put the
tongue on the tooth.
And then the third one
is you rotate your eyes
while thinking about all of
the great aspects of your life
very, very slowly.
So if you look at my eyes and
how slowly they're moving,
you want to move
extremely slowly
while keeping the tip of
the tongue onto the tooth
and focused on the
great times of my life.
>>NOORY: Now, what does this do?
>>MCKENNA: What it
will do is you'll
have a vivid picture in your
mind of reliving experiences
that you've completely
forgot about.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MCKENNA: And each
individual tooth
is like changing the
channel of a TV set.
The first tooth may be a time
when you were in college.
The next tooth, you're
going to be at a great time
when you were very young, and
it was Christmas or Hanukkah
or something like that, and
you were having a great time.
The next tooth, you might
have been on vacation.
The next tooth, you
were getting married.
The next tooth--
but either, it's
like changing channels of a TV.
>>NOORY: And what does the
eyes have to do with it?
>>MCKENNA: Every single
position of the eyes
is a different
part of the brain.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MCKENNA: The
tooth is isolating--
the tip of the tongue to the
tooth is isolating a circuit.
There is a circuit of energy
that goes from the belly button
up through the tip of the tooth,
and we're basically closing
a circuit with the tooth.
And when your eyes get
to a certain position
and that tooth is
locked into position
with the tongue, what happens
is it's like tuning an antenna.
All of a sudden, it's like--
[VOCALIZED BEEP]
And you'll pop.
You'll get the picture.
Now, the amazing thing here
is, is that these are repressed
memories that you have
no idea about that
are going to come up.
And it's as if you're
actually there reliving.
>>NOORY: And, hopefully,
good memories, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
This first exercise, we're
doing on good memories,
the great times of your life.
And the reason we
want to do this
is there's very little
resistance to it,
and it's super easy to do.
>>NOORY: Have your techniques
changed since the last time
you were on our program?
>>MCKENNA: So the techniques
are constantly evolving.
This discovery happened
a few years ago,
and we are in a constant process
of learning and exploring.
So, yes, they're even better.
>>NOORY: How do you use this
in your day-to-day life, Bill?
>>MCKENNA: Well, how I use
this particular technique,
this particular aspect, is
where I don't understand,
like, why am I nervous
about something.
It makes no sense.
>>NOORY: Do you know what it is?
>>MCKENNA: I don't
even know why,
but I got a feeling in my
body like I'm all jittery,
and I'm nervous.
>>NOORY: Like butterflies?
>>MCKENNA: Like butterflies,
maybe, but not in a good way.
And I would go through
the individual teeth,
and I locked onto one--
>>NOORY: Until it went away?
>>MCKENNA: Well,
I locked onto it,
and then I could actually see--
I was like, oh my gosh, there
was an issue where I was a kid,
and my dad had driven our
car into basically a river.
>>NOORY: This happened?
>>MCKENNA: It happened.
And I was there as a little boy.
I was probably only
maybe four or five.
But the water was all the
way to the doors, and the--
>>NOORY: Why did he do this?
>>MCKENNA: I think he just
thought he could get across it.
>>NOORY: He thought he
could get across the river?
>>MCKENNA: He though
he could get across.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>MCKENNA: And I was like--
>>NOORY: You could
have all drowned.
>>MCKENNA: But I was--
yeah, well, that's the
way a little boy felt.
We got out of there.
There was a rope that the
emergency people came,
and we got out of there.
But as a little
boy, I was there.
And I was like, oh my
god, I'm going to drown.
And I remember I was just
absolutely shaken by it.
>>NOORY: What results have you
seen through these exercises?
>>MCKENNA: There are so many
changes in people's lives
through doing this.
We have people that
are hypnotists,
therapists, psychotherapists,
acupuncturists.
We have seen
results of utilizing
this where people's lives
are completely changed,
because not only do they
actually see the event
and see the truth--
all of a sudden, because they
now know the truth, everything
changes.
They see that their parent
actually wasn't bad,
that they actually loved them
and were looking out for them.
They see that--
>>NOORY: Did they have doubts?
>>MCKENNA: Their
doubts are then gone,
and they see a
different perspective.
>>NOORY: You've been
able to bend time.
How do you do that?
>>MCKENNA: So in
the last episode
that we were on here
on "Beyond Belief,"
we had that whole episode which
was dedicated to bending time.
And it has everything to do
with shifting dimensions.
It's completely different than
what we're doing here today,
but if somebody would
like to know about that,
it's a great episode.
It was really super popular.
>>NOORY: How do people
get ahold of you, Bill?
>>MCKENNA: They can
get ahold of us--
the best possible
way is to go to
cognomovement.com/beyondbelief.
We have a full webinar for
everybody, a free webinar,
which they can go and learn
more about these techniques
and accessing
their subconscious.
>>NOORY: Bill, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MCKENNA: Thanks, George.
>>NOORY: It's a
wonder what you can
do with the subconscious mind.
Use some of these
exercises, train yourself,
and see what happens.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]